29 leaders of Arab and Muslim American
Community groups have rejected a meeting
with White House officials they say
they're taking a stand in response to US
policies on Gaza and have criticized
President Joe Biden's support of Israel
the meeting was scheduled in Chicago for
Thursday so joining us live from Chicago
there's TK KH he's an attorney activist
and board member in the Chicago chapter
of American Muslims for Palestines tar
welcome to Al jaer so you were invited
to this Biden meeting this white house
meeting and you declined why did you do
so a host of organizations were invited
a Chicago being uh one of them our uh
rejection and opposition to this meeting
is laid out in our letter that I helped
uh spearhead and the the the basic
undertone and the basic uh message is
fairly simple we met multiple times
there's been many meetings and the
demands have been made abundantly clear
to this Administration time and time
again and and the Biden Administration
has rejected those uh calls has rejected
those demands so now Biden
Administration um reached out to meet to
discuss what exactly um there was there
is no meeting of the minds so why meet
um you know exactly what the demands are
you know what is happening on the ground
there's no new information there's not a
single piece of information that I can
provide that we can provide to the Biden
Administration that they don't already
know don't you think this would have
been a good opportunity to a your
grievances on what what would have been
a public platform or do you think it
would have just been used by uh the
administration as a pH
all well the demands that um have been
have been made time and time again is
essentially essentially would have been
the same demands that would have been
made at that meeting so why do we keep
regurgitating the same talking points
the same demands when the administration
is obviously not responding to it now
any type of measure that the
administration takes to quote unquote
try to alleviate this the situation or
increase humanitarian Aid the bid
Administration can end this right now
with one phone call that's all it takes
one phone call we provide Israel with uh
us-made weapons we provide Israel with
financial aid we're the ones that
protect Israel at the United Nations we
provide diplomatic cover so Biden could
end all of this in one hour if he truly
wanted to so you want to schedule
another meeting with local leaders in
the Chicago land area to discuss what
exactly the very thing that we've been
demanding all along which is a permanent
and immediate ceasefire so you want to
meet fine we will condition a meeting on
the call for a ceasefire not have
another meeting to demand it again if
you don't meet President Biden and White
House officials what weight can these
American Muslim groups bring to bear on
the administration and their position uh
on Gaza which does seem to be shifting a
bit doesn't it diplomatically
well I mean because because of the
immense pressure that has been put on
the administration but that doesn't mean
that there's a moral calculus here the
political calculus is okay maybe we need
to start maybe we need to provide some
kind of trickling of Aid which is what
this uh what this temporary mechanism
this this temporary report is
essentially uh for it's it's to it's to
Showcase to the world and to the
American people that hey you know we're
doing something about it but you could
do something much greater than that and
in a quicker time frame this port will
take about 60 to 90 days to to put
together to facilitate aid while you're
providing that same the same entity
that's committing a genocide in Gaz with
more weapons so you want to play the
role of firefighter as well as arsonist
at the same time that contradictory
policy will not fly with the leadership
here in Chicago the administration is
not been entirely one way on this the
vice president Cara Harris has been
calling for
ceasefire
okay well let's take a look at her words
she called for a temporary ceasefire and
a temporary ceasefire means hey let's
bring back the uh let's let's make this
a focus on the hostages as opposed to
the destruction and the slaughter of the
Palestinian people in Gaz so a temporary
ceasefire so that we can fulfill one one
aspect of it and then Israel can resume
its bombing campaign and it's genocidal
acts after that it was never a call for
a permanent and immediate ceasefire
that's been the call that's been the
demand for five plus months and the
Biden Administration can effectuate that
with one simple phone call and he
refuses to do so so meet for what it's
counterintuitive it's counterproductive
and I view it as a net negative and we
as a community as a leadership Community
as a collective view it as a net
negative as opposed to a net positive
what do you make of the US efforts to uh
get Aid into
Gaza it's just another cynical move Aid
so you want to provide the people of
Band-Aids while also carrying an axe in
the other hand that kind of uh
contradictory policy we see right
through it so at all the while you
provide Israel with the necessary means
with us-made weapons to commit a
genocide the the first Liv stream
genocide in the history of the world and
at the same time you want to trickle
down Aid
as well so you want to heal the wounds
but cause greater wounds at the same
time that kind of policy is not based on
any kind of moralistic grounding that's
not based on a principal stance that's
based on some type of political
expediency and political posturing and
we as a leadership Community are not
falling for it TK Hal from the Chicago
chapter of American Muslims for
Palestine thank
you thank you for your time